# Problem

Ecommerce is full of thrid party (3p) sellers and fulfillment.  The service that an online retailer like Amazon or Walmart provides to 3p sellers is shopper traffic, which in turn is provided by trusted product content and rich, detailed product pages.  The groundwork for decentralized commerce has been laid in the physical world by retialers supporting 3p sellers.  The missing piece is the brand-owned content that clarifies exactly what is being bought and sold.  Buyers do not want to wade through a Craigslist-like experience when shopping online - many sellers with the exact same or similar items in different listings, varied photography, untrustworthy measurements.  They want an Amazon-like experience - one page per product with brand-owned content, professional photography, accurate specifications, with many sellers lined up offering that product.  Sellers prefer the Amazon experience as well, as they don't have overhead creating listings for their goods, but just sign up to sell known products quickly and easily.  The extra party in this situation are brands, which treat their product pages on popular retailer sites as marketing opportunities.  Brands also prefer to have their own content representing their manufactured goods over sketchy 3p market listings.  What none of these three parties like about the Amazon experience is Amazon.  Online retailers take a cut of sales for doing nothing but disseminating brand-owned content to prospective buyers of goods being sold by 3p buyers.  The opportunity is to replace online retailers with decentralized infrastructure that allows the three productive parties to do business with no middlemen.

# Solution

The Global Data Synchronization Network (GDSN) is a product content standard currently used by brands, logistics providers and retailers to publish and subscribe to updates about trading partners' items.  An example of how GDSN can be leveraged is that a warehouse can predict an incoming shipment of item # 1234 will be coming in packs of 6, cases of 4, and pallettes of 16, for a total of 384 units.  Using mass and volume metrics about the item, planning software can optimize how to break that incoming pallette down and store it or ship it out with the other thousands of shipments it processes per day.  GDSN also stores product data like name, features, description, and allergen info.

Building a crypto-native infrastructure layer similar to GDSN would allow brands to manage their online assortment and cryptographically sign their updates so that buyers and sellers can use it as a source of truth.  Decentralized retailers can build on top of this infra layer with competing implementations of UX, including fee structure, product categorization, recomendation alorithms, return policies, etc...  Amazon themselves could run an implentation of amazon.com using this datasource, but others could compete as well with a much lower barrier to entry as onboarding brands is a major headwind to upstart online retailers.